## Introduction

The cytokines binding the common γ-chain (γ~c~) receptor, including interleukin (IL)-2, 4, 7, 9, 15, and 21, are a critical hub in modulating both innate and adaptive immune responses [@DOI:10.1016/j.immuni.2019.03.028]. The cytokine family operates through a common theme of binding private receptors for each ligand, before engaging the common γ~c~ receptor to induce signaling. A prominent phenotypic outcome of γ~c~ receptor signaling is lymphoproliferation, and so the cytokines are often observed to be an endogenous or exogenous mechanism for altering the balance of immune cell types. This phenotype is observed most extremely from loss-of-function or reduced activity mutations in gc which subvert T and NK cell maturation. Disruptive mutations in private receptors can lead to more selective reductions in cell types such as regulatory T cells (T~reg~s) with IL-2Rα or T cells with IL-7Rα. Conversely, activating mutations in these receptors, such as IL-7Rα promote cancers such as B and T cell leukemias.


Understanding the signaling processes involved.

The importance of these cytokines to immune homeostasis, alongside challenges in altering their signaling toward specific therapeutic goals, has inspired a variety of engineered forms. Perhaps the most common approach has been to alter the receptor affinities of IL-2 to weaken its interaction with IL-2Rα, IL-2Rβ, or both receptors. IL-2Rα confers T~reg~s with greater sensitivity toward IL-2, and so IL-2Rα affinity tunes the relative amount of signaling toward regulatory versus effector populations, while IL-2Rβ modulates the overall signaling potency [@PMID:25992859]. In most cases the wild-type cytokine or mutein is fused to an IgG antibody to take advantage of FcRn recycling for extended half-life. The antibody has also been employed in a more active role by binding to IL-2 to influence its availability to each receptor in so-called immunocytokine [@PMID:25992858]. Fc fusion has taken a variety of forms, including orienting the cytokine in an N-terminal or C-terminal orientation, including one or two cytokines per IgG, and including or excluding Fc effector functions [@DOI:10.1101/778894]. Notably, bivalent cytokine fusion has been noted to be more potent in T~reg~-targeted engineered therapies, perhaps through pharmacokinetic or other means [@DOI:10.1126/sciimmunol.aba5264]. As a result, the potential design space for these molecules quickly becomes intractable for experimental exploration without consistent design principals.

Here, we systematically and comprehensively evaluate the signaling specificity effects of engineered cytokine alterations, including affinity-altering mutations and Fc-fusion formats. We explore three hypotheses for the widely observed effect that Fc-fusion in a bivalent format enhances potency _in vivo_. We find that this can be fully explained by the effect multivalency has on binding selectivity toward cells with higher receptor abundance. The signaling specificity of all muteins and Fc-formats match well with a multivalent binding model, both between cell types and across cell-to-cell variation within a cell type. Finally, we argue that cytokine valency is an unexplored axis of further enhancing selective signaling responses, and that many opportunities for using multivalency exist within the γ~c~ cytokine family.
